---
layout: item
title: Workflows Community Meetup - All Things Groovy
subtitle: "Supercharge your Nextflow pipelines with Groovy"
location_name: Sulston C3-02; https://sanger.zoom.us/j/93327483010?pwd=TEk5UTJEUVdZMGFGWHJKSURGcUVZZz09
start_date: '23-05-2023'
start_time: '15:00 BST'
end_date: '23-05-2023'
end_time: '16:30 BST'
status: publish
type: seminar
---

**Workflows Community** is inviting you to a meetup focused on supercharging your Nextflow pipelines with Groovy.

1. **Sateesh Peri (nf-core)** will do a hands-on exploration of **nf-test**, a simple test framework specifically tailored for Nextflow pipelines. This presentation will delve into:
   - Structure and Implementation: Discover nf-test's intuitive Groovy-based structure using 'when' and 'then' blocks, which simplifies the definition of input parameters and expected outputs compared to pytest-workflow's YAML-based approach.
   - Test Case Organization: Learn about nf-test's ability to consolidate a suite of tests within a single file, enabling more efficient test management and maintenance.
   - Assertions and Checks: Uncover different types of assertions available for tests and compatibility with third-party libraries for creating specific assertions.
   - Snapshot Support: Understand the benefits of nf-test's snapshot functionality, which allows for easier comparisons of actual and expected outputs.
2. **Simon Murray (Wellcome Sanger Institute)** will talk about **integrating groovy** functions and operators in Nextflow pipelines.
   - What is a ternary operator and why is it useful?
   - How to write your own error and help functions?
   - How to determine memory size based on input parameters and formulas?
   - How to generate a unique timestamp variable?

</br>

Join us in person in Sulston C3-02 or via Zoom (details below).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zoom Meeting: https://sanger.zoom.us/j/93327483010?pwd=TEk5UTJEUVdZMGFGWHJKSURGcUVZZz09
</br> Meeting ID: 933 2748 3010
</br> Passcode: 387589
